---
id: pitfalls
title: Pitfalls
---

<center>
<div data-ea-publisher="immerjs" data-ea-type="image" className="horizontal bordered"></div>
</center>

### Performance tips

For performance tips, see [Performance Tips](./performance.mdx#performance-tips).

### Don't reassign the recipe argument

Never reassign the `draft` argument (example: `draft = myCoolNewState`). Instead, either modify the `draft` or return a new state. See [Returning data from producers](./return.mdx).

### Immer only supports unidirectional trees

Immer assumes your state to be a unidirectional tree. That is, no object should appear twice in the tree, there should be no circular references. There should be exactly one path from the root to any node of the tree.

### Never explicitly return `undefined` from a producer

It is possible to return values from producers, except, it is not possible to return `undefined` that way, as it is indistinguishable from not updating the draft at all! If you want to replace the draft with `undefined`, just return `nothing` from the producer.

### Don't mutate exotic objects

Immer [does not support exotic objects](https://github.com/immerjs/immer/issues/504) such as window.location.

### Classes should be made draftable or not mutated

You will need to enable your own classes to work properly with Immer. For docs on the topic, check out the section on [working with complex objects](./complex-objects.md).

### Only valid indices and length can be mutated on Arrays

For arrays, only numeric properties and the `length` property can be mutated. Custom properties are not preserved on arrays.

### Data not originating from the state will never be drafted

Note that data that comes from the closure, and not from the base state, will never be drafted, even when the data has become part of the new draft.

```javascript
function onReceiveTodo(todo) {
	const nextTodos = produce(todos, draft => {
		draft.todos[todo.id] = todo
		// Note, because 'todo' is coming from external, and not from the 'draft',
		// it isn't draft so the following modification affects the original todo!
		draft.todos[todo.id].done = true

		// The reason for this, is that it means that the behavior of the 2 lines above
		// is equivalent to code, making this whole process more consistent
		todo.done = true
		draft.todos[todo.id] = todo
	})
}
```

### Immer patches are not necessarily optimal

The set of patches generated by Immer should be correct, that is, applying them to an equal base object should result in the same end state. However Immer does not guarantee the generated set of patches will be optimal, that is, the minimum set of patches possible.

### Always use the result of nested producers

Nested `produce` calls are supported, but note that `produce` will _always_ produce a new state. So even when passing a draft to a nested produce, the changes made by the inner produce won't be visible in the draft of the outer produce; those changes will only be visible in the output that the inner `produce` returns. In other words, when using nested produce, you get a draft of a draft and the result of the inner produce should be merged back into the original draft (or returned). For example `produce(state, draft => { produce(draft.user, userDraft => { userDraft.name += "!" })})` won't work as the output of the inner produce isn't used. The correct way to use nested producers is:

```javascript
produce(state, draft => {
	draft.user = produce(draft.user, userDraft => {
		userDraft.name += "!"
	})
})
```

### Drafts aren't referentially equal

Draft objects in Immer are wrapped in `Proxy`, so you cannot use `==` or `===` to test equality between an original object and its equivalent draft (eg. when matching a specific element in an array). Instead, you can use the `original` helper:

```javascript
const remove = produce((list, element) => {
	const index = list.indexOf(element) // this won't work!
	const index = original(list).indexOf(element) // do this instead
	if (index > -1) list.splice(index, 1)
})

const values = [a, b, c]
remove(values, a)
```

If possible, it's recommended to perform the comparison outside the `produce` function, or to use a unique identifier property like `.id` instead, to avoid needing to use `original`.
